So yeah, you've done your initial
information architecture,
your top-level information architecture,
but
we probably want to, well,
we do need to expand that out, right?
So after we've done our top-level
information architecture focused on our
primary tasks, well,
it's not all about our primary tasks.
There was all those other tasks that
got voted on, but just didn't get votes
that were as high, so we need to
accommodate those as well, right?
So to do that,
we need a two step process, right?
Step one is we need to
integrate more tasks,
those tiny tasks, let's call them that.
But step two is, we also need to
accommodate subsections, right?
So not everything's gonna be
in our top-level navigation.
So, how do we do those two things?
Let's talk about our tiny task first.
So we did an open card sort
with about 30 cards, right?
Now, if time is tight and
that's all you could do, all power to you.
Fair enough, great.
Something is better than nothing.
Let's move on.
If you get the opportunity
to do a little bit more,
I would now run a closed card sort.
Now in a closed card sort, notice how the
top-level sections are predefined, right?
So this is where I've gone in and I've
said based on the results of the open card
sort, this is what I think the top-level
sections should be, right.
And then, but I've added one more,
if you notice, I'm not sure, right.
So you've got all the sections
that I created, and
then we've got one extra that I
added in called I'm not sure.
So now because all users have got to do
is basically take a card and drop it in
whichever box makes sense to them,
now I can test with a lot more cards.
I can add all of my cards in there and
they'll go bang, bang, bang, bang, bang,
and put them in different sections and
we're good to go.
And if they're not sure where to put it
they just put it in, I'm not sure, right.
So this is a great way of making sure
our information architecture works for
every task, not just our top tasks, okay?
So to create this is really,
really simple.
In UX metrics, again basically, instead of
selecting open card sort at the beginning
you select closed card sort instead,
so you create a new closed card sort.
Then what you do is you add all
the top-level sections you made up
based on what you did on the open card
sort from looking at the results and etc.
So now we we add those
all in as new groups.
With that additional I'm not sure option.
And then we go through and
add all of our cards in, right, for
all of our top tasks,
the whole seven list of 70.
It's very annoying.
They need a bulk import, which
doesn't exist in the app, but anyway.
And then you just publish that online and
share it with whoever and
get them to fill in the results, right?
Yes.
>> Can you do this live?
If you were doing it on Zoom or
something, can you do it with a live?
>> You could do it live, yeah.
You could do it that way if you wanted to
talk to people and understand what they're
doing, cuz at the end it's just giving you
a URL and whether you send that out via
email, let people do it whenever
they want, or you do it facilitated.
That's up to you.
I don't see a huge amount of value
if I'm honest in doing it live.
You get the interaction and
the conversation,
which is always good, but
it's probably a bit of a luxury, right?
For me, I think I would prefer
larger numbers of people
completing it than a smaller
number facilitated.
Does that make sense?
>> Cuz we've done it with Figjam.
>> Yeah.
>> It's much clunkier.
>> Yeah, it's not great.
I mean, you could do it with Figjam,
or what's the other one, Miro.
Yeah, but this tool just makes it so
easy cuz you can just send it out and
they get on with it.
And again, we got to analyze the results,
which is pretty much same as before.
You go to the results page, but this
time we're gonna click on Cards, right?
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna look at all of the cards,
and we're gonna be paying attention
to the agreement score, okay?
So what the agreement score is,
is it's saying how many people or
what percentage of people agreed
that that particular task, card,
whatever you want to call it,
should be in that section, right?
So if it's got a very
high agreement score,
you can be confident that that
task belongs in that section.
However, if it's got a low
agreement score, say below 50%,
then it means people are unsure
about where it should go.
And maybe there's an issue with the
information architecture then, all right?
You also obviously need to pay attention
to cards that are assigned to the not
sure group, because those are potential
problem areas as well that people don't
know where to put them.
But you will often find that it's not as
bad as it first looks when you look at it.
IA is not an exact science.
It's not gonna churn out an information
architecture at the end of it.
It's just providing you evidence
to make good decisions.
So it will need to be a judgment call,
right.
You'll need to decide what agreement
score level is acceptable to you and
how to handle uncertain items, right?
And that will be largely dependent
on your organization's culture and
their attitude to risk,
your audience, your content type.
You have to go with your gut to a degree
on this which is a bit rubbish for
workshop, but
there is no other way of saying it.
However, as a general rule of thumb,
this is what I kind of think, right?
If something has got an agreement
score of less than 50%,
in other words, if only 50% of people,
or less than 50% of people
agreed on what section it should be in,
then I pay attention to it.
I also pay attention to items
that are marked not sure, right?
In most cases,
the problem can easily be solved by
assigning it to the second
highest rated place, right?
So let's say we had a task of dental care,
right.
And there was a healthcare
group which had 48%
of people assigned it to health care,
right.
And then the next one down
was benefits where I know 32%
of people or
designed it to benefits, all right.
In most cases, if people aren't
agreeing on the top-level section and
there is a relatively close second one,
you just assign it to one,
doesn't matter which one and
then crosslink it from the secondary one.
Does that make sense?
So that would be a link in benefits
as well as a link in in healthcare.
That way you're covering your bases.
If people don't agree,
we'll just go for the second.
Also in the not sure category.
There'll be a lot of things
in the not sure category, and
you'll freak out because they go,
these things are not sure.
But if you look at it, they'll oftentimes
the second one was pretty high in
the number of votes it had, right?
Not all might be coming in at 51% but
benefits was coming in at 49,
well, we'll just put it in benefits then,
right?
So oftentimes just look
at that second option and
that'll help you kind of
work it out a little bit.
So that's your belt and braces approach
for doing top-level navigation.
People are gonna have trouble arguing
with you if you use all that, but
it's quite a lot I know.
So if you want to skip steps, go for your
life, whatever you can practically do,
because we do need to think about
about lower level sections as well,
cuz at the moment all we've done
is create top-level navigation.
If you've got a large number of tasks
assigned to a single top level section,
then we're going to need to organize those
tasks into subcategories, subsections.
So typically I try and
avoid having more than
about seven elements in a sub section
just as a general rule of thumb, right?
So if you've got 10 or 15,
then you're probably gonna need two or
three sub sections in that section, right?
So there's two approaches to
the sub section problem, right?
One, and the grown-up proper,
you're gonna be taught to do it the right
way approach is more card sorting, right?
You would do card sorting for
each section.
You can see how this is gonna quickly get
out of hand and beyond what most people
are able to do, because you could
have six top-level sections, and
then you'd have to do card sorting for
each of those.
It's never gonna happen, is it?
Let's be honest, right?
So, option two,
make an educated guess, right?
And this is where I get in trouble
with all the real UX research experts
that tell me off for
having such a cavalier attitude.
But sometimes existing knowledge and
research is enough to identify
appropriate subsections.
And anyway, we can use the tree testing,
which I'm coming on to in a minute,
to double-check everything.
Guess what I'm gonna say now?
We can use ChatGPT to help us do that,
right?
So, ChatGPT is really good at organizing
conceptually similar concepts and
ideas together, right?
So we can say,
act as an information architecture.
You've been asked to organize the content
I will give you into subsections within,
in this case, the university's HR
website's benefits section, right?
Avoid having more than seven subsections,
cuz we don't want hundreds of subsections.
Keep the label of each section to one or
two words.
Avoid ambiguity,
cuz I said that earlier, in labeling, or
two labels becoming too similar.
Assign content into subsections,
but based on conceptual similarity,
the goal is to ensure users can easily
find the content within the hierarchy.
Are you ready for the content,
that list of section that we've
got within that benefit section?
Or do you have any questions?
If it says it's ready,
you copy a listing of stuff that was in
the benefits section and
it'll organize it for you.
It's not the grown up way of doing it,
right?
But it works most of the time.
It gives you reasonably good results and
it saves time.